V8 version of Umbraco Interface (#2232)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Tutorials/Editors-Manual/Getting-Started-With-Umbraco/Umbraco-Interface/index.md

---
versionFrom: 8.0.0
---

# Umbraco Interface

## Initial View

> After logging in to an Umbraco V8 project you will be presented with a screen with a lot of different buttons in this guide you will gain a quick overview of what each button does.

Reviewer: Took the liberty to split this into two sentences.
Also, we prefer writing `Umbraco 8` instead of `V8` 😄 

```suggestion
After logging in to an Umbraco 8 project you will be presented with a screen with a lot of different buttons. In this guide you will gain a quick overview of what each button does.
```

Author: done

![Environment.png](images/Environment.png)

> ### 1. The three circles

Reviewer: Instead of calling it "The three circles" - how about we go with something a bit more specific to what the circles actually are? 🤔 Like, "Environments" or "Environments overview" ? What do you think?

Author: Hmm yeah i guess i could call it environment overview and clarify that they are represented as the three circles?

Reviewer: Or perhaps "Environments Dashboard" .. 🤔 

Yes, I actually think it's already explained perfectly in the text below 💪

> These circles represent the environments, the first one in the row is **local** environment, the next one on the right from local is to **add new** environments and the last one in the line is your **live** environment.

Reviewer: Made a few suggestions here. Let me know if it all makes sense 😄 

```suggestion
These circles represent the environments available on the project. The first one in the row is **local** environment, the next one on the right from local is the option to **add new** environments and the last one in the line is your **Live** environment.
```

clicking these circles will present you with a box below that gives you different options.

![Environment.png](images/Utility-links.png)

> ### 2. The three buttons slightly to the right

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Utility links
```

> The first button in this row opens the overview of the environments on the project, the second button takes you to the [Umbraco Cloud documentation](https://our.umbraco.com/Documentation/Umbraco-Cloud/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first button in this row opens the overview of the environments on the project in the Umbraco Cloud Portal. The second button takes you to the [Umbraco Cloud documentation](https://our.umbraco.com/Documentation/Umbraco-Cloud/).
```

> The last button has three dots, this gives you the following options: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last button has three dots, and gives you the following links: 
```

- Getting Started
- Set up a Project
- Deployment
- Troubleshooting

![Environment.png](images/Search-and-help.png)

### 3. The three buttons in the top right
 The first button is a search field here you can search for the content that you are looking for.
The second button is the help button if you click this you will get options for **help**.
The third button is your **profile**, this will give you the option to edit your profile and password.

![Environment.png](images/Two-tabs-left.png)

> ### 4. The two buttons slightly towards top left

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Dashboards
```

> The first button is **Your Workspace** that takes you to the tab with the circles on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first tab is **Your Workspace** which takes you to the dashboard with the environments overview.
```

> The second button is **Redirect URL Management** this is for redirects on you project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second tab is **Redirect URL Management**, which is a dashboard for managing redirects on you project.
```

![Environment.png](images/The-top-bar-right.png)

> ### 5. The eight buttons in the far top left

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Sections menu
```

> These buttons are the tabs that you will be working under during you work with you project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The menu at the top, contains links to each section in the backoffice. 
```

> The first button is **Content** this is where you manage your content.

Reviewer: This is great! How about putting them into a list? 🤔 I like lists.
What do you think? 😁

Author: yeah that is a good idea  😄

Author: are you thinking a numbered list or just bullet points as i could see both work 😄

The next button is **Media**, under this tab you can manage images and other media files.
The third button is **Settings**, in this tab you handle your meta data such as document types.
Button number four is **Packages**, this tab lets you manage and install packages.
The fifth button is **Users**, this tab lets you manage the users on the project.
Button six is the **Members** tab, and here you can handle the members of the project.
The seventh button in the row is **Forms** tab, here you can create and manage your forms.
The final and eight button is **Translation**, this tab is for managing languages.  

![Environment.png](images/Colone-left.png)

> ### 6. The two buttons on the far left

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Section tree
```

> The first one is **Content** this allows you to create content nodes, and manage your content tree, if you hover over it then it will highlight with a darker color indicating that you are hovering over it, and a button with three dots will show up, clicking this will present you with additional options, there will be other option if you right click the field.

Reviewer: It would be great with some general details about trees here! 😁 

Also, it's great explaining the options in the tree.. But as far as I can see, these options are all also covered in the section on creating content: https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/Tutorials/Editors-Manual/Getting-Started-With-Umbraco/Creating-Saving-and-Publishing-Content/ 🤔 
Finally: The sentence is more than 40 words 🙈 Any chance you could split it up or make it shorter? (https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/Contribute/Style-Guide/#long-sentences)
